README.md, before:

# Welcome to Awesome On-device AI
![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/pulls)

A curated list of awesome projects and papers for AI on **Mobile/IoT/Edge** devices. Everything is continuously updating. Welcome contribution!

## Contents

- [Papers/Tutorial](#papers/tutorial)
  - [Learning on Devices](#1-learning-on-devices)
  - [Inference on Devices](#2-inference-on-devices)
  - [Models for Mobile](#3-model-for-mobile)
  - [On-device AI Application](#4-On-device-AI-Application)
  - [Survey and Tutorial](#5-survey-and-tutorial)
- [Open Source Projects](#open-source-projects)
	- [DL Framework on Mobile](#1-DL-Framework-on-Mobile)
  - [Inference Deployment](#2-Inference-Deployment)
  - [Open Source Auto-Parallelism Framework](#3-Open-Source-Auto-Parallelism-Framework)
- [Contribute](#Contribute)

## Papers/Tutorial

### 1. Learning on Devices

#### 1.1 Memory Efficient Learning

- [ICML'22] POET: Training Neural Networks on Tiny Devices with Integrated Rematerialization and Paging. by Patil et al. [[paper](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v162/patil22b/patil22b.pdf)]
- [NeruIPS'22] On-Device Training Under 256KB Memory. by Ji Lin, Song Han et al. [[paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.15472.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] Melon: breaking the memory wall for resource-efficient on-device machine learning. by Qipeng Wang et al. [[paper](https://xumengwei.github.io/files/MobiSys22-Melo.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] Sage: Memory-efficient DNN Training on Mobile Devices. by In Gim et al. 2022 [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3498361.3539765)]

#### 1.2 Learning Acceleration

- [MobiCom'22] Mandheling: Mixed-Precision On-Device DNN Training with DSP Offloading. by Daliang Xu et al. [[paper](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07509)]

#### 1.3 Learning on Mobile Cluster

- [ICPP'22] Eco-FL: Adaptive Federated Learning with Efficient Edge Collaborative Pipeline Training. by Shengyuan Ye et al. [[paper](https://ssl.linklings.net/conferences/icpp/icpp2022_program/views/includes/files/pap117s3-file1.pdf)] [[code](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/Federated-Learning-Research.git)]
- [SEC'21] EDDL: A Distributed Deep Learning System for Resource-limited Edge Computing Environment. by Pengzhan Hao et al. [[paper](https://buzhangy.github.io/publication/eddl-sec21.pdf)]

#### 1.4 Measurement and Survey

- [MobiSys'21 Workshop] Towards Ubiquitous Learning: A First Measurement of On-Device Training Performance. by Dongqi Chai, Mengwei Xu et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3469116.3470009)]

### 2. Inference on Devices

#### 2.1 Collaborative Inference

- [MobiSys'23] NN-Stretch: Automatic Neural Network Branching for Parallel Inference on Heterogeneous Multi-Processors. by USTC & Microsoft. [[paper](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2023/05/stretch_mobisys23-6462ea7a63d9e.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] CoDL: efficient CPU-GPU co-execution for deep learning inference on mobile devices. by Fucheng Jia et al. [[paper](https://chrisplus.me/assets/pdf/mobisys22-CoDL.pdf)]
- [InfoCom'22] Distributed Inference with Deep Learning Models across Heterogeneous Edge Devices. by Chenghao hu et al. [[paper](https://iqua.ece.toronto.edu/papers/chenghao-infocom22.pdf)]
- [TON'20] Coedge: Cooperative dnn inference with adaptive workload partitioning over heterogeneous edge devices. by Liekang Zeng et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9296560)]
- [ICCD'20] A distributed in-situ CNN inference system for IoT applications. by Jiangsu Du et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9283504/)]
- [TPDS'20] Model Parallelism Optimization for Distributed Inference via Decoupled CNN Structure. by Jiangsu Du et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9275375/)]
- [EuroSys'19] μLayer: Low Latency On-Device Inference Using Cooperative Single-Layer Acceleration and Processor-Friendly Quantization. by Youngsok Kim et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3302424.3303950)]
- [TCAD'18] DeepThings: Distributed Adaptive Deep Learning Inference on Resource-Constrained IoT Edge Clusters. by zhuoran Zhao et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8493499)]
- [DATE'17] Modnn: Local distributed mobile computing system for deep neural network. by Jiachen Mao et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7927211/)]

#### 2.2 Latency Prediction for Inference

- [MobiSys'21] nn-Meter: towards accurate latency prediction of deep-learning model inference on diverse edge devices. by Li Lyna Zhang et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3458864.3467882)]

#### 2.3 Multi-DNN Serving

- [MobiSys'22] Band: coordinated multi-DNN inference on heterogeneous mobile processors. by Seoul National University et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3498361.3538948)]

#### 2.4 DNN Arch./Op.-level Optimization

- [MobiSys'23] ConvReLU++: Reference-based Lossless Acceleration of Conv-ReLU Operations on Mobile CPU. by Shanghai Jiao Tong University [[paper](https://yuanchun-li.github.io/static/files/MobiSys23_ConvReLU++.pdf)]

### 3. Models for Mobile

#### 3.1 Lightweight Model

- [ACL'20] MobileBERT: a Compact Task-Agnostic BERT for Resource-Limited Devices. by Zhiqing Sun et al. [[paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.02984.pdf)]
- [ICML'19] EfficientNet: Rethinking Model Scaling for Convolutional Neural Networks. by Mingxing Tan et al. [[paper](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v97/tan19a/tan19a.pdf)]
- [CVPR'18] Shufflenet: An extremely efficient convolutional neural network for mobile devices. by Xiangyu Zhang et al.[[paper](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/html/Zhang_ShuffleNet_An_Extremely_CVPR_2018_paper.html)]
- [CVPR'18] MobileNetV2: Inverted Residuals and Linear Bottlenecks. by Mark Sandler et al. [[paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Sandler_MobileNetV2_Inverted_Residuals_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf)]

### 4. On-device AI Application

#### 4.1 On-device NLP

- [Ubicomp'18] DeepType: On-Device Deep Learning for Input Personalization Service with Minimal Privacy Concern. by Mengwei Xu et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3287075)]
- [Arxiv 2018] Federated learning for mobile keyboard prediction. by Google [[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.03604)]

### 5. Survey and Tutorial

#### 5.1 Tutorial

- [CVPR'23 Tutorial] Efficient Neural Networks: From Algorithm Design to Practical Mobile Deployments. by Snap Research [[paper](https://snap-research.github.io/efficient-nn-tutorial/)]

## Open Source Projects

### 1. DL Framework on Mobile

- Tensorflow Lite: Deploy machine learning models on mobile and edge devices. by Google. [[code](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite)]
- TensorflowJS: A WebGL accelerated JavaScript library for training and deploying ML models. by Google. [[code](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfjs)]
- MNN: A Universal and Efficient Inference Engine. by Alibaba. [[code](https://github.com/alibaba/MNN)]
- FluidAudio: Local audio AI SDK for Apple platforms with ASR, speaker diarization, VAD, and TTS. Optimized for Apple Neural Engine. by FluidInference. [[code](https://github.com/FluidInference/FluidAudio)]

### 2. Inference Deployment

- TensorRT: A C++ library for high performance inference on NVIDIA GPUs and deep learning accelerators. by Nvidia. [[code](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT)]
- TVM: Open deep learning compiler stack for cpu, gpu and specialized accelerators. by Tianqi Chen et al. [[code](https://github.com/apache/tvm)]
- MACE: a deep learning inference framework optimized for mobile heterogeneous computing platforms. by XiaoMi. [[code](https://github.com/XiaoMi/mace)]
- NCNN: a high-performance neural network inference framework optimized for the mobile platform. by Tencent. [[code](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)]

### 3. Open Source Auto-Parallelism Framework

#### 3.1 Pipeline Parallelism

- Pipeline Parallelism for PyTorch by **Pytorch**. [[code](https://github.com/pytorch/PiPPy)]
- A Gpipe implementation in Pytorch by Kakaobrain. [[code](https://github.com/kakaobrain/torchgpipe)]



## Contribute

All contributions to this repository are welcome. Open an [issue](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/issues) or send a [pull request](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/pulls).

Commit message:

Add - [ICCAD'25] Mitigating Resource Contention for Responsive On-device Machine Learning Inferences

README.md, after:

# Welcome to Awesome On-device AI
![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg) [![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/pulls)

A curated list of awesome projects and papers for AI on **Mobile/IoT/Edge** devices. Everything is continuously updating. Welcome contribution!

## Contents

- [Papers/Tutorial](#papers/tutorial)
  - [Learning on Devices](#1-learning-on-devices)
  - [Inference on Devices](#2-inference-on-devices)
  - [Models for Mobile](#3-model-for-mobile)
  - [On-device AI Application](#4-On-device-AI-Application)
  - [Survey and Tutorial](#5-survey-and-tutorial)
- [Open Source Projects](#open-source-projects)
	- [DL Framework on Mobile](#1-DL-Framework-on-Mobile)
  - [Inference Deployment](#2-Inference-Deployment)
  - [Open Source Auto-Parallelism Framework](#3-Open-Source-Auto-Parallelism-Framework)
- [Contribute](#Contribute)

## Papers/Tutorial

### 1. Learning on Devices

#### 1.1 Memory Efficient Learning

- [ICML'22] POET: Training Neural Networks on Tiny Devices with Integrated Rematerialization and Paging. by Patil et al. [[paper](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v162/patil22b/patil22b.pdf)]
- [NeruIPS'22] On-Device Training Under 256KB Memory. by Ji Lin, Song Han et al. [[paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.15472.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] Melon: breaking the memory wall for resource-efficient on-device machine learning. by Qipeng Wang et al. [[paper](https://xumengwei.github.io/files/MobiSys22-Melo.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] Sage: Memory-efficient DNN Training on Mobile Devices. by In Gim et al. 2022 [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3498361.3539765)]

#### 1.2 Learning Acceleration

- [MobiCom'22] Mandheling: Mixed-Precision On-Device DNN Training with DSP Offloading. by Daliang Xu et al. [[paper](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07509)]

#### 1.3 Learning on Mobile Cluster

- [ICPP'22] Eco-FL: Adaptive Federated Learning with Efficient Edge Collaborative Pipeline Training. by Shengyuan Ye et al. [[paper](https://ssl.linklings.net/conferences/icpp/icpp2022_program/views/includes/files/pap117s3-file1.pdf)] [[code](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/Federated-Learning-Research.git)]
- [SEC'21] EDDL: A Distributed Deep Learning System for Resource-limited Edge Computing Environment. by Pengzhan Hao et al. [[paper](https://buzhangy.github.io/publication/eddl-sec21.pdf)]

#### 1.4 Measurement and Survey

- [MobiSys'21 Workshop] Towards Ubiquitous Learning: A First Measurement of On-Device Training Performance. by Dongqi Chai, Mengwei Xu et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3469116.3470009)]

### 2. Inference on Devices

#### 2.1 Collaborative Inference
- [ICCAD'25] Mitigating Resource Contention for Responsive On-device Machine Learning Inferences. by Minsung Kim et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/11240707)]
- [MobiSys'23] NN-Stretch: Automatic Neural Network Branching for Parallel Inference on Heterogeneous Multi-Processors. by USTC & Microsoft. [[paper](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/uploads/prod/2023/05/stretch_mobisys23-6462ea7a63d9e.pdf)]
- [MobiSys'22] CoDL: efficient CPU-GPU co-execution for deep learning inference on mobile devices. by Fucheng Jia et al. [[paper](https://chrisplus.me/assets/pdf/mobisys22-CoDL.pdf)]
- [InfoCom'22] Distributed Inference with Deep Learning Models across Heterogeneous Edge Devices. by Chenghao hu et al. [[paper](https://iqua.ece.toronto.edu/papers/chenghao-infocom22.pdf)]
- [TON'20] Coedge: Cooperative dnn inference with adaptive workload partitioning over heterogeneous edge devices. by Liekang Zeng et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9296560)]
- [ICCD'20] A distributed in-situ CNN inference system for IoT applications. by Jiangsu Du et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9283504/)]
- [TPDS'20] Model Parallelism Optimization for Distributed Inference via Decoupled CNN Structure. by Jiangsu Du et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9275375/)]
- [EuroSys'19] μLayer: Low Latency On-Device Inference Using Cooperative Single-Layer Acceleration and Processor-Friendly Quantization. by Youngsok Kim et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3302424.3303950)]
- [TCAD'18] DeepThings: Distributed Adaptive Deep Learning Inference on Resource-Constrained IoT Edge Clusters. by zhuoran Zhao et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8493499)]
- [DATE'17] Modnn: Local distributed mobile computing system for deep neural network. by Jiachen Mao et al. [[paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7927211/)]

#### 2.2 Latency Prediction for Inference

- [MobiSys'21] nn-Meter: towards accurate latency prediction of deep-learning model inference on diverse edge devices. by Li Lyna Zhang et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3458864.3467882)]

#### 2.3 Multi-DNN Serving

- [MobiSys'22] Band: coordinated multi-DNN inference on heterogeneous mobile processors. by Seoul National University et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3498361.3538948)]

#### 2.4 DNN Arch./Op.-level Optimization

- [MobiSys'23] ConvReLU++: Reference-based Lossless Acceleration of Conv-ReLU Operations on Mobile CPU. by Shanghai Jiao Tong University [[paper](https://yuanchun-li.github.io/static/files/MobiSys23_ConvReLU++.pdf)]

### 3. Models for Mobile

#### 3.1 Lightweight Model

- [ACL'20] MobileBERT: a Compact Task-Agnostic BERT for Resource-Limited Devices. by Zhiqing Sun et al. [[paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.02984.pdf)]
- [ICML'19] EfficientNet: Rethinking Model Scaling for Convolutional Neural Networks. by Mingxing Tan et al. [[paper](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v97/tan19a/tan19a.pdf)]
- [CVPR'18] Shufflenet: An extremely efficient convolutional neural network for mobile devices. by Xiangyu Zhang et al.[[paper](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/html/Zhang_ShuffleNet_An_Extremely_CVPR_2018_paper.html)]
- [CVPR'18] MobileNetV2: Inverted Residuals and Linear Bottlenecks. by Mark Sandler et al. [[paper](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Sandler_MobileNetV2_Inverted_Residuals_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf)]

### 4. On-device AI Application

#### 4.1 On-device NLP

- [Ubicomp'18] DeepType: On-Device Deep Learning for Input Personalization Service with Minimal Privacy Concern. by Mengwei Xu et al. [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3287075)]
- [Arxiv 2018] Federated learning for mobile keyboard prediction. by Google [[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.03604)]

### 5. Survey and Tutorial

#### 5.1 Tutorial

- [CVPR'23 Tutorial] Efficient Neural Networks: From Algorithm Design to Practical Mobile Deployments. by Snap Research [[paper](https://snap-research.github.io/efficient-nn-tutorial/)]

## Open Source Projects

### 1. DL Framework on Mobile

- Tensorflow Lite: Deploy machine learning models on mobile and edge devices. by Google. [[code](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite)]
- TensorflowJS: A WebGL accelerated JavaScript library for training and deploying ML models. by Google. [[code](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfjs)]
- MNN: A Universal and Efficient Inference Engine. by Alibaba. [[code](https://github.com/alibaba/MNN)]
- FluidAudio: Local audio AI SDK for Apple platforms with ASR, speaker diarization, VAD, and TTS. Optimized for Apple Neural Engine. by FluidInference. [[code](https://github.com/FluidInference/FluidAudio)]

### 2. Inference Deployment

- TensorRT: A C++ library for high performance inference on NVIDIA GPUs and deep learning accelerators. by Nvidia. [[code](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT)]
- TVM: Open deep learning compiler stack for cpu, gpu and specialized accelerators. by Tianqi Chen et al. [[code](https://github.com/apache/tvm)]
- MACE: a deep learning inference framework optimized for mobile heterogeneous computing platforms. by XiaoMi. [[code](https://github.com/XiaoMi/mace)]
- NCNN: a high-performance neural network inference framework optimized for the mobile platform. by Tencent. [[code](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)]

### 3. Open Source Auto-Parallelism Framework

#### 3.1 Pipeline Parallelism

- Pipeline Parallelism for PyTorch by **Pytorch**. [[code](https://github.com/pytorch/PiPPy)]
- A Gpipe implementation in Pytorch by Kakaobrain. [[code](https://github.com/kakaobrain/torchgpipe)]



## Contribute

All contributions to this repository are welcome. Open an [issue](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/issues) or send a [pull request](https://github.com/ysyisyourbrother/awesome-mlsys-mobile/pulls).
